---
layout: post
title: Workers
---

# Workers

Worker empire is your way to making passive income. Effectivly the best return on energy spent in the game.

Recruit workers from the work supervisor found in each city.

Each worker will gain experiance and levels as they are active in game.

## Worker Stats

- Work speed; the time it takes to get a job done, how fast work is done.

Each node will have a 'work load', the total amount of work needing to be done, A worker will peform the work speed amount every cycle. 
When the work load is completed worker will return to city with resources or materials from node.

Note - A node with a 200 workload, a goblin with 150 workspeed will require 2 cycles to complete the given task.

- Moving Speed; the time it takes to travel to node, how fast the travel distance.
- Luck; tinfoil hat, no effect
- Stamina; the time it takes before a worker stops, cycles before needing to be fed.

## Worker Race

- Goblins; faster moveing speed, but small stamina
- Humans; middle, balance of move speed and stamina
- Giants; huge stamina pool, slowest worker
- Papu; Kama version of goblin, slightly higher stats
- Fadus; Kama version of Human, slightly higher stats

## Worker Tiers

- Artisan, Chance is about 1 in 400
- Professional, 
- Skilled, If you are just getting started try to start here
- Normal, Basic worker tier
- Nieve, Worst worker tier, avoid at all cost

## Worker Experiance

Levels 1-10 require the same amount of experiance for all workers.

Leveling Artisan workers will take roughly double the experiance of a green worker to reach level 20 

All workers at level 30 will take 30000 experiance for a skill reset.

The most efficent way to level a worker is 1-tick crafting jobs [source](https://www.reddit.com/r/blackdesertonline/comments/6s1rg4/worker_exp_per_level_charts_an_equation_for/)


## Worker Skills

- Advanced Skill; Consume 4x materials to create 4x crates or items during 1 cycle.
- Farm Knowledge; Additional +5 work speed when working nodes. May reduce cycles required to complete a given task
- Craftmanship;
- Thrifty

## Named Workers

Contract workers will level as skilled workers
